[cdac] Data Descriptor Spec (#100253)
dotnet/runtime: docs/design/datacontracts/datacontracts_design.md

The Data Contract Descriptor has a set of records of the following forms.

### Data descriptor

The data descriptor is a logical entity that defines the layout of certain types relevant to one or
more algorithmic contracts, as well as global values known to the target runtime that may be
relevant to one or more algorithmic contracts.

More details are provided in the [data descriptor spec](./data_descriptor.md).  We highlight some important aspects below:

#### Baseline data descriptor identifier

An optional string identifying a well-known record of global values and data structure layouts.  The
identifier is an arbitrary string, that could be used, for example to tag a collection of globals
and data structure layouts present in a particular release of a .NET runtime for a certain

> architecture (for example `net9.0-rc1/Release/linux-arm64`).  Global values and data structure

Author: I agree, I think new baselines will be pretty rare.  

`Release` vs `Debug`: I didn't mean to imply that we would have `Debug` baselines.  I agree we will probably have the `Debug` variants built atop the `Release` baselines as those scenarios are not as concerned with size.

The Data Contract Descriptor has a set of records of the following forms.

### Data descriptor

The data descriptor is a logical entity that defines the layout of certain types relevant to one or
more algorithmic contracts, as well as global values known to the target runtime that may be
relevant to one or more algorithmic contracts.

More details are provided in the [data descriptor spec](./data_descriptor.md).  We highlight some important aspects below:

> #### Baseline data descriptor identifier

Reviewer: This should be moved to `data_descriptor.md` where it talks about baseline descriptor. This higher-level doc should only have a brief mention.

layouts present in the data contract descriptor take precedence over the baseline contract.  This
way variant builds can be specified as a delta over a baseline.  For example, debug builds of
CoreCLR that include additional fields in a `MethodTable` data structure could be based on the
Release data descriptor augmented with new `MethodTable` and other structure descriptors.

It is not a requirement that the baseline is chosen so that additional "delta" is the smallest
possible size, although for practical purposes that may be desired.

Data descriptors are registered as "well known" by checking them into the main branch of
`dotnet/runtime` in the `docs/design/datacontracts/data/` directory in the JSON format specified
in the [data descriptor spec](./data_descriptor.md#Physical_JSON_Descriptor).  The relative path name (with `/` as the path separator, if any) of the descriptor without
any extension is the identifier.  (for example:
`/docs/design/datacontracts/data/net9.0/coreclr/linux-arm64.json` is the filename for the data
descriptor with identifier `net9.0/coreclr/linux-arm64`)

#### Global Values

> Global values which can be of types (int8, uint8, int16, uint16, int32, uint32, int64, uint64, pointer, nint, nuint)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global values can be either primitive integer constants or pointers.
```
The detailed explanation is in the linked doc

All global values have a string describing their name, a type, and a value of one of the above types.

#### Data Structure Layout

> Each data structure layout has a name for the type, followed by a list of fields. These fields can be of primitive types (int8, uint8, int16, uint16, int32, uint32, int64, uint64, nint, nuint, pointer) or of another named data structure type. Each field descriptor provides the offset of the field, the name of the field, and the type of the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each data structure layout has a name for the type, followed by a list of fields. These fields can be of primitive integer types, pointers or of another named data structure type. Each field descriptor provides the offset of the field, the name of the field, and the type of the field.
```

## Types of contracts

There are 2 different types of contracts each representing a different phase of execution of the data contract system.

> ### Composition contracts

Reviewer: These serve similar purposes as the baselines. Is there a rationale for having both Composition contracts and the baselines?

Author: Composition contracts are a grouping mechanism for algorithmic contracts.

A logical data descriptor is composed out of physical data descriptors.

It's the similar function but for two different parts of the system.

We still don't have a spec for the physical encoding for contracts in a target runtime. That's not part of the data descriptor stuff in this PR.

Author: I removed all references to composition contracts
